Okay, so
the one case that we haven't handled yet
is the case where the user guessed
correctly and now has a pair.
And so from within this grid component,
we need to communicate that up to the game
component so
that we can update the game state.
And to do that, this component grid.svelte
needs to become an event dispatcher.
So, as we've seen in the workshop so far,
we'll create dispatch as create
EventDispatcher parentheses,
and it's automatically imported that for
us from svelte.
And then inside here,
we're gonna dispatch a found event, and
we're gonna give it some information.
We're gonna pass the emoji
that was found in that event.
And then in our game.svelte component,
I'm gonna move that over to the left so
that I can see it.
We can now add a found event
listener on the grid component.
Like so, tab to accept that completion.
[SOUND] All right, so this event data
is gonna tell us which emoji is found.
You remember that we
declared this array up
here of the emojis that have been found,
I'm just gonna push data into that array.
[SOUND] Right, this e.detail object is
something that you get on a custom event.
This isn't a Svelte thing.
It's a DOM thing.
The e.detail can be just
an arbitrary object of data.
It's basically whatever you pass
in to your dispatch function.
Save, so that prettier makes it look nice.
And now we need to do something
with the array of found emojis.
First of all, we need to remove it from
the grid because you can't
find a pair twice [SOUND].
All right, same drill,
and then scroll by now,
we need to create this prop on the grid.
I'm just gonna duplicate that
line with command Shift D.
Okay, now we need to represent
that inside the square component.
So we're gonna pass a found
property into here, but
it's not gonna be the entire array.
It's just gonna be a Boolean of whether or
not found includes the emoji that
we're currently dealing with.
So inside square, just like selected is
a Boolean we're gonna add a found Boolean.
And that's gonna be if the array
includes the current emoji.
And we can use this to remove
the span from the grid
altogether [SOUND] once
the emoji has been found
So now if I pick two pairs from the grid,
like these two fish,
they get removed from the grid.
You'll notice of course that there
is a repeating pattern here.
The pairs at the top, sorry,
the emojis at the top are duplicated
in the bottom half of the grid.
So this game isn't gonna
be a whole lot of fun.
So we need to shuffle the emojis.
And to do that, we're gonna create
a new module called utils.ts.
And inside that module,
we're gonna create a shuffle function.
Do export function shuffle.
And the input to this function
is gonna be an array of strings.
But the fact that it's an array of
strings actually isn't material.
The shuffle function doesn't
care what it's shuffling.
So we're gonna turn this
into a generic function.
We do that by adding a generic
argument like this, and
then we can replace
the string here with T.
This is nice because now when something
calls shuffle and passes in an array of
whatever values, then TypeScript will
know what kind of array is getting back.
Okay, so we're gonna implement something
called the Fisher-Yates shuffle algorithm,
which modifies an array in place.
We begin by getting
the current array length, and
then we're just gonna
work backwards [SOUND].
At each point, we're gonna get a random
value between zero and the current index.
[SOUND] So that's math.floor
of math.random x i + 1 because
we just decremented it.
And we wanna get a temporary variable
that contains an array[i] I think.
And then we do array i
equals array j,
array j equals temp.
If I get this right first time,
I'm gonna be super happy with myself.
And then we just return
the array at the end.
So now inside the game
where we create this grid,
we can take these pairs where we're
just duplicating everything and
we can shuffle that before we return it.
Okay, we need to import it and
do that from utils.
If I hit Save, hopefully we're
gonna get a randomized array.
All right, it doesn't look that random
because we've got the caterpillars next to
each other and the dinosaurs on
top of each other, but it is.
This is a shuffled array.
Okay, so
things are starting to take shape.
One thing we're not doing right now
is we're not storing the emojis
that we've found outside the grid, and
we have a space to do that in this
info block below the game grid.
So we would like to include all of
the emogis that have been found so
far down here.
We're gonna create a new component for
this, call it found.svelte.
Just do div class equals found.
That's gonna take the found array,
export, let found string array.
And we'll just render,
I need to add the lang equals ts,
that's why it's giving me
the red squigglies, and
it's just gonna render an array of
all of the found emojis [SOUND].
And I'm gonna add a key there so
that we can do some funky animation stuff
later on in the when we
build the app [SOUND].
All right, back in my game.svelte.
We can create that component and
pass the found array into it.
And now if I find a pair like
these turtles here then,
hopefully it's gonna appear down here.
It's a little hard to see though, so
gonna go back to found.svelte and
add some styles [SOUND].
Maybe, on that a little bit further.
We want that to be centered.
So, we're gonna add some
display flex goodness
to div class="found" [SOUND].
Justify content center line items center.
We'll put a little gap between
the things that we find.
Now find some more of these pairs,
they'll also get added to
that array at the bottom.